http://edu.sina.com.cn/
教育
http://edu.sina.com.cn/yimin/
移民
http://edu.sina.com.cn/a/2018-12-06/doc-ihprknvt4423667.shtml
英国投资移民签证停止！周五开始生效？
2018年12月06日 19:14
　　作者：刘鹏，英国彼得森律师行合伙人，英国内政部移民事务署注册移民律师，新浪微博：英国移民peterliu　　　一早起来，各种微信发来一个消息：根据英国BBC的报道，英国投资移民签证将于本周五，也就是明天停止。 文章标题原文：　　　　简单的理解可以翻译成“”。 　　先不说结论，我们先将报道的原文简单翻译如下，供大家参考，：　　Ministers are halting a “gold-plated” visa scheme offering foreign investors a fast-track to settling in the UK， as part of a crackdown on financial crime。　　作为打击金融犯罪的一部分，部长们正在暂停一项“镀金”签证计划，这个签证计划目前为外国投资者提供在英国定居的快速通道。　　Tier 1 investor visas were introduced in 2008 to encourage rich people from outside the EU to invest in the UK。　　A £2m investment bought a visa and indefinite leave to remain after five years。 But concerns were raised the scheme was being used to launder money。　　2008年开始生效的投资移民签证，鼓励欧盟以外的富人投资英国。　　只需要一笔200万英镑的投资购买了签证，五年后获得英国的绿卡。越来越多担心这个计划被用来洗钱。　　Its suspension will end after an audit process is introduced， ministers say。　　“We will not tolerate people who do not play by the rules and seek to abuse the system，” said Immigration Minister Caroline Nokes， announcing the suspension would come into effect at midnight on Friday。　　“That is why I am bringing forward these new measures which will make sure that only genuine investors， who intend to support UK businesses， can benefit from our immigration system。”　　部长们表示，在审计程序出台后，其暂停将结束。　　“我们不会容忍那些不遵守规则并试图滥用该制度的人，”移民部长Caroline Nokes表示，宣布暂停将于周五午夜生效。　　“这就是为什么我提出这些新措施，以确保只有真正支持英国企业的投资者才能从我们的移民系统中受益。”　　More than 1，000 Tier 1 visas were issued in 2017 with the highest numbers going to Chinese and Russian investors。　　The scheme previously required that applicants had a UK bank account and were of “good character”。　　2017年签发了超过1，000个一级签证，其中中国和俄罗斯投资者的签证数量最多。　　该计划以前要求申请人拥有英国银行账户并具有“良好品格”。　　From next year， independent， regulated auditors will assess applicants‘ financial and business interests and check they have had control of the funds for at least two years， the Home Office said。　　Successful candidates have been eligible for visas lasting three years and four months， with two-year extensions available。　　内政部表示，从明年开始，独立的受监管审计师将评估申请人的财务和商业利益，并检查他们已经控制了至少两年的资金。　　成功的申请人有资格获得持续三年零四个月的签证，可以延期两年。　　In 2011， the government hoped to attract the “brightest and best” by allowing investors to bring forward the date at which they could apply for settled status。 Spending £10m in the UK cut the wait to just two years。　　However， three years later， the Migration Advisory Committee said the scheme brought little economic benefit for British citizens because most applicants were buying gilts to qualify - so were effectively loaning the government money， rather than investing in the UK。　　The Home Office said in future there will be a provision for pooled investments， supported by the government， to back projects with a “clear economic benefit to the UK” such as supporting small and medium-sized businesses。　　2011年，政府希望通过允许投资者提出申请解决身份的日期来吸引“最聪明，最优秀”。在英国投资1000万英镑可以获得英国绿卡的时间缩短至两年。　　然而，三年后，移民咨询委员会表示，该计划给英国公民带来的经济利益很少，因为大多数申请人都在购买金边债券以获得资格 - 因此有效地借贷政府资金，而非投资英国。　　内政部表示，未来将有一项由政府支持的集合投资条款，以支持对英国有“明显经济利益”的项目，如支持中小企业。　　阅读理解：　　　　需要注意的是，大叔认为除了英国人打着反洗钱的旗号来对政策尽心修改以外，更加需要注意的是 　　换位思考，这个举动作为英国人而言是有利的，能够更大促进本地经济的。 但是对于中国高资产人士而言，将是一个极大的挑战，和极大的风险，特别是那些还没有办理投资移民的人士，需要慎重考虑！！！