http://edu.sina.com.cn/
教育
http://edu.sina.com.cn/kids/
少儿英语
http://edu.sina.com.cn/kids/2020-01-17/doc-iihnzhha3071169.shtml
BBC英语大破解: Mapping the dead 为海格特公墓绘制地图
2020年01月17日 14:10新浪教育综合
　　　　Mapping the dead 为海格特公墓绘制电子地图　　　　有关 “burial（埋葬）” 的词汇　　　　How fast does Pete's laser backpack take measurements?　　　　 to hundreds of historical figures, Highgate Cemetery is known all over the world - but not everyone here is famous.　　这里是数百位历史人物的，海格特公墓世界闻名，但并不是埋葬在这里的人都是名人。　　Amongst this growing sea of ivy are thousands of - some that haven't been seen in years. For many, this is what makes Highgate beautiful. But finding relatives'  here can be tricky.　　在这片长得越来越茂密的常春藤当中，有成千上万的，有些墓碑多年都未露出。对许多人来说，这就是海格特公墓的美丽之处。但是在这里找亲人的可不容易。　　Well, today some of them are being rediscovered through a process of careful clearing, which tries to keep the character of the cemetery. The ivy has been removed from some of these headstones - not only to protect them from  - but also to allow them to be mapped digitally for the first time.　　今天，在试图保持墓地特征的基础上，通过认真仔细的清理后，一些墓碑重新露出。这些墓碑上的常春藤已经被清除，这不仅是为了保护它们免受，也是为了让它们能够首次被绘制在电子地图上。　　This is Pete. His backpack uses lasers, which can't be seen, to take three hundred thousand measurements a second. It also has five cameras taking pictures constantly. The information is uploaded online, and eventually a digital map comes to life.　　这是皮特。他的背包使用激光，这是看不到的，每秒测量30万次。背包里还有五个摄像头在不停地拍照。这些信息会被上传到网上，最终一张电子地图就生成了。　　Tim Viney, Chairman, Atlantic Geomatics　　Highgate is, as you can see, is a pretty tough location. From a mapping perspective, vegetation can be our biggest nightmare. There are paths - but there are also areas that are very difficult to access – so we have to be very careful from a health and safety perspective.　　蒂姆·瓦伊尼              Atlantic Geomatics 公司主席　　“海格特公墓，正如你所看到的，是一个非常难测量的地点。从绘制地图的角度来说，植被是我们最怕遇到的东西。虽然这里有一些小路，但也有一些区域很难进入，所以从健康和安全的角度来说，我们必须非常小心。”　　Over the last year, Tim and his team have now mapped more than half the . And already – the new system is helping.　　去年，蒂姆和他的团队已经把超过一半的绘制进了电子地图。这个新地图已经开始起作用了。　　Ian Dungavell , CEO, Friends of Highgate Cemetery Trust　　It's wonderful that new technology can enable us to do this in a way that just isn't possible with old paper records.　　伊恩·邓加维尔             海格特公墓信托之友首席执行官　　“令人惊叹的是，新技术可以使我们做到这一点，而这是旧的纸质记录无法做到的。”　　Over the next year – there will be more mapping and only the most essential plant clearing, meaning more of this incredible part of London is accessible for generations to come.　　在接下来的一年里，绘制地图的工作仍将继续，只有必须要清理的植物才会被清除，这意味着伦敦这片美丽的区域将会有更多的地方可供后人使用。　　　　resting place 安息处　　headstones 墓碑　　grave 坟墓，埋葬处　　decay 腐蚀，腐朽　　cemetery 公墓，墓地　　　　It takes three hundred thousand measurements a second.　　实习编辑：姚依明　　责任编辑：潘程