http://edu.sina.com.cn/
教育
http://edu.sina.com.cn/kids/
少儿英语
http://edu.sina.com.cn/kids/2020-01-19/doc-iihnzhha3511870.shtml
BBC随身英语: Promoting body positivity 爱身体长自信
2020年01月19日 18:13新浪教育综合
　　不是每个人都喜欢自己的样子。我们中的许多人可能没有安全感，或者过于关注自己不完美的外貌特征。但是，现在有很多人在鼓励大家要热爱自己的身体，接受自我，对自己有信心，对自己的外貌有信心。怎样才能对自己的身体形象有信心，有更积极的看法呢？“随身英语” 给你几个好建议……　　　　',' the popular saying goes. ',' is another. ',' is a third. What do they have in common? They remind us that something's  should not be the most important thing when determining its value. This is what the movement is all about. Its message is that we should value ourselves for who we are  – accept our and stop judging ourselves against our.　　But it's easier said than done. Despite this rise in positivity, many people still feel about themselves and their appearance because it may not  to the objectified stereotype. So what can a person do to improve their own body positivity?　　Not comparing your body to others', particularly celebrities', is a good first step. "We're surrounded by these images of what it is to be beautiful," says Becky Young, founder of the Anti Diet Riot Club – a club helping people rethink their relationship with their bodies and food. She points out that comparing only creates a standard we think we need to  and leads to feelings of disappointment if we aren't.　　'Learn to take a ,' recommends Thriveworks, a counselling and coaching website which promotes positive mental health. When someone says something nice, embrace it – don’t push it away or  it . And compliment others too. If you think someone looks nice, or someone has a good idea, tell them. It can them .　　 your body for what it can do – walking, yoga, playing sport or otherwise. "You can be an incredible human regardless of your shape or size," says Esther Field, a body-positive social media campaigner interviewed by the BBC. After knee surgery, "I attended the gym and realised how strong and capable my body was, even though it was fat."　　And finally, don't forget that low self-esteem and body confidence issues affect everyone. "There aren't a lot of guys that are pushing this idea of body positivity," David Fadd, a  male model of two years told the BBC. The social media influencer wants to remind us that body image and confidence affect men too.　　Ultimately, the only person who can truly affect your body positivity is you. Becoming comfortable with yourself is unlikely to be accomplished overnight – but don't give up. Remember that everyone is insecure sometimes. And as David Fadd says "be unapologetic about who you are and what you want as a person. Love what you look like."　　　　don't judge a book by its cover 不能以貌取人　　all that glitters is not gold 闪光的并非都是金子　　fine feathers do not make fine birds 人不可貌相　　appearance 外表，外貌　　body positivity 积极的身体形象　　warts and all 丝毫不掩饰缺点的，不遮丑的　　flaw 缺点，缺陷　　imperfection 缺点　　insecure 不自信的　　measure up 达到，满足　　idealised 把……理想化　　aspire to 渴望，追求　　up to scratch 达到标准　　compliment 赞扬话，称赞　　play something down 对……作低调处理　　lift up 提升（某人）情绪　　appreciate 感激，欣赏　　plus-size 加大尺码的　　　　 　　1. What do the three popular sayings at the beginning of the article aim to teach us?　　2. What is the problem with comparing ourselves to others, according to Becky Young?　　3. In what way can we improve other people's body positivity and confidence?　　4. Which event prompted Esther Field to realise how strong and capable she was?　　5. What does David Fadd say you should not apologise for?　　　　1. This book is so rare, and therefore valuable, is the printing _______ on the cover.　　appearance          flaw                     insecure                   up to scratch　　2. Your uncle is very sensitive so please try to _______ that he's wearing a wig.　　aspire                   measure up         play down               appreciate　　3. Stop being so _______, darling. You look as beautiful as the day I married you.　　insecure               imperfect             objectified                idealised　　4. James, I'm afraid your last report was not _______. Please redo it in more detail.　　up to wound         up to cut              up to bleed              up to scratch　　5. Everyone keeps telling me how nice my hair is. It's great to have so many _______!　　compliments        appearances        imperfections          insecurities　　　　  　　1. What do the three popular sayings at the beginning of the article aim to teach us?　　　　2. What is the problem with comparing ourselves to others, according to Becky Young?　　　　3. In what way can we improve other people's body positivity and confidence?　　　　4. Which event prompted Esther Field to realise how strong and capable she was?　　　　5. What does David Fadd say you should not apologise for?　　　　　　1. This book is so rare, and therefore valuable, is the printing  on the cover.　　2. Your uncle is very sensitive so please try to  that he's wearing a wig.　　3. Stop being so, darling. You look as beautiful as the day I married you.　　4. James, I'm afraid your last report was not. Please redo it in more detail.　　5. Everyone keeps telling me how nice my hair is. It's great to have so many !　　实习编辑：姚依明　　责任编辑：潘程