http://edu.sina.com.cn/
教育
http://edu.sina.com.cn/foreign/
外语
http://edu.sina.com.cn/cet/2019-12-14/doc-iihnzhfz5829201.shtml
2019年12月大学生英语四级考试答案及解析
2019年12月14日 13:14新浪教育
　　内容来源：有道考神　　一、听力　　News 1　　1。 A， A wandering cow was captured by the police。　　2。 D， It was sent to the animal control department。　　News 2　　3。 C， It is going to be expanded。　　4。 B， Some ancient wall paintings from Australia。　　News 3　　5。 C， Pick up trash。　　6。 B， They are especially intelligent。　　7。 D， Children may be tempted to drop litter。　　Conversation1　　8。 A， It will cover different areas of science。　　9。 B， It will be more entertaining。　　10。 D， People interested in science。　　11。 A， Provide financial support。　　Conversation2　　12。 D， Dissatisfied　　13。 B， He is too concerned with being perfect。　　14。 D， Miserable　　15。 A， Compare his present with his past only。　　Passage1　　16。 C， They are more likely to become engineers。　　17。 C， Respond more positively to boys’ comments。　　18。 D， Offer personalized teaching materials。　　Passage2　　19。 C， It does not rain as much as people think。　　20。 A， The rain is usually very light。　　21。 B， It has mild weather both in summer and in winter。　　Passage3　　22。 D， It comes from straining one‘s muscles in an uncommon way。　　23。 D， Blood flow and body heat increase in the affected area。　　24。 A， About two days。　　25。 B， Have a hot shower。　　二、阅读　　1。 第一套　　选词填空　　26-30 BMICK　　31-35 LOGEJ　　26。 B admiring　　27。 M sealed　　28。 I natural　　29。 C contains　　30。 K released　　31。 L revealing　　32。 O substance　　33。 G liquid　　34。 E evidence　　35。 J potential　　段落匹配　　36-40 EICGK　　41-45 FBJDH　　36.E The United States Postal Service has a system to ensure。。。　　37.I One official says USPS is unique in that it has more direct。。。　　38.C Natural disasters can have a long-lasting impact on。。。　　39.G Mail delivery service is still responsible for the completion。。。　　40.K The sight of a mailman on the street is a reassuring sign of life。。。　　41.F After Hurricane Katrina interrupted routine delivery， temporary。。。　　42.B Postal service in some regions in the U.S。 was suspended due to。。。　　43.J Private postal companies also support disaster relief efforts by。。。　　44.D A dedicated USPS employee was on the job carrying out duties。。。　　45.H Postal services work hard to identify items that require priority。。。　　仔细阅读　　46-50 DCADC　　51-55 CBBAD　　46.D It is a computer program that aids student learning。　　47.C Students‘ questions were too many to handle。　　48.A She turned out to be a great success。　　49.D They could not tell her from a real person。　　50.C Assign her to answer more of students‘ questions。　　51.C Not all of them achieved their anticipated goals。　　52.B To identify reasons for their different outcomes。　　53.B Its interaction with prospective donors。　　54.A They should be small to be successful。　　55.D Their feeling of connection to the scientists themselves。　　2。 第二套　　选词填空　　26-30 BLKAO　　31-35 CEGDH　　26。 B conclusion　　27。 L spread　　28。 K slim　　2。 A accurate　　30。 O vulnerable　　31。 C directly　　32。 E evalte　　33。 G flights　　34。 D either　　35。 H largely　　段落匹配　　36-40 FIDGB　　41-45 EHAJC　　36.F Songdo’s popularity lies more in its quality of life than business。。。　　37.I The man who conceived Songdo feels disappointed because it。。。　　38.D A scene in a popular South Korean music video was shot in。。。　　39.G Songdo still lacks the financial stimulus for businesses to。。。　　40.B Airplanes will increasingly become the chief means of transportation。。。　　41.E Songdo has ended up different from the city it was supposed。。。　　42.H Some of the people who work in Songdo complain about boredom。。。　　43.A A business professor says that a future city should have easy access。。。　　44.J According to an urban design professor， it is difficult for city designers to foresee。。。　　45.C Park Yeon Soo， who envisioned Songdo， feels a parental connection 。。。　　仔细阅读　　46-50 BCDBA　　51-55 DABAC　　46.B It may encourage other US cities to follow suit。　　47.C Take legal action against it。　　48。 D It criticized the measure through advertising。　　49。 B Help people to fix certain long-time health issues。　　50。 A They are becoming rather sensitive issues。　　51.D The use of microwaves emits more CO2 than people think　　52.A They are becoming more affordable　　53.B Improving microwave users‘ habits　　54.A There are far more emissions from cars than from microwaves　　55.C It plays a positive role in environment protection。　　3。 第三套　　选词填空　　26-30 OADCG　　31-35 HKNEF　　26.O unpleasant　　27.A adjusted　　28.D experience　　29.C equivalent　　30.G individuals　　31.H originally　　32.K reduce　　33.N thrive　　34.E filters　　35.F frequently　　段落匹配　　36-40 EIBGD　　41-45 JAFCH　　36.E According to one professor， obesity is related to a lack。。。　　37.I Some scientists claim that people should consume right。。。　　38.B Opinions differ as to whether breakfast is the meal important。。。　　39。 G It has been found that not eating breakfast is related to 。。。　　40。 D Researchers found it was a change in eating habits rather 。。。　　41。 J To keep oneself healthy， eating breakfast is more important。。。　　42.A It is widely considered wrong not to eat breakfast。　　43。 F More research is needed to prove that breakfast is related to 。。。　　44.C People who priorities breakfasts tend to have lower calorie but higher。。。　　45.H Many studies reveal that eating breakfast helps people concentrate。　　仔细阅读　　46-50 CDACB　　51-55 DBDCB　　46.C They can‘t connect professors and students as textbooks do。　　47.D Falling sales。　　48.A Reform its structures。　　49.C Answer questions using their personal experience。　　50。 B They can learn in an interactive way　　51.D It gets energy from both food and sunlight。　　52.B The mechanism by which it conserves energy。　　53.D They can produce chlorophyll on their own。　　54.C They don‘t usually function inside animal cells。　　55.B They can survive for months without eating。　　三、写作　　1。 第一套　　Directions： For this part， you are allowed 30 minutes to write a letter to a foreign friend who wants to teach English in China。 Please recommend a city to him。 You should write at least 120 words but no more than 180 words。　　破题思路　　第一段：写作目的（推荐一个城市）　　第二段：分析推荐的理由。（“三八大盖”之分析原因功能段+王菲押题范文第九篇“介绍我的家乡”的范文素材直接套用。）　　第三段：选择这个城市的好处。（“三八大盖”之展望未来功能段。）　　老师王菲参考范文　　Dear friend，　　I am writing this letter to recommend you an excellent city since you want to teach English in China。 And I strongly recommend my hometown Jiujiang。 The reasons for my recommendation mainly lie in the following aspects。　　Its beautiful scenery comes first。 Jiujiang is a livable city surrounded with lakes and mountains。 Here you will marvel at the exquisite and picturesque beauty of a famous mountain--the Lushan Mountain。 You can take the cable car to the mountain top and overlook the panorama of the mountain foot while taking pictures of the beautiful scenery。　　Apart from the beautiful scenery and tasty food， you will also be attracted by a variety of working opportunities there since there are many universities， which helps to pave the way for your future career。 I believe you will have a great time staying there and all those opportunities there accumulated can help ensure a green future of you。　　Yours sincerely，　　**　　2。 第二套　　Directions： For this part， you are allowed 30 minutes to write a letter to a foreign friend who wants to teach English in China。 Please recommend a place to him。 You should write at least 120 words but no more than 180 words。　　破题思路　　第一段：写作目的（推荐一个地方）　　第二段：分析推荐的理由。（“三八大盖”之分析原因功能段+王菲押题范文第九篇“介绍我的家乡”的范文素材直接套用。）　　第三段：选择这个地方的好处。（“三八大盖”之展望未来功能段。 ）　　老师王菲参考范文　　Dear friend，　　I am writing this letter to recommend you an excellent city since you want to teach English in China。 And I strongly recommend my hometown Jiujiang。 The reasons for my recommendation mainly lie in the following aspects。　　Its beautiful scenery comes first。 Jiujiang is a livable city surrounded with lakes and mountains。 Here you will marvel at the exquisite and picturesque beauty of a famous mountain--the Lushan Mountain。 You can take the cable car to the mountain top and overlook the panorama of the mountain foot while taking pictures of the beautiful scenery。　　Apart from the beautiful scenery and tasty food， you will also be attracted by a variety of working opportunities there since there are many universities， which helps to pave the way for your future career。 I believe you will have a great time staying there and all those opportunities there accumulated can help ensure a green future of you。　　Yours sincerely，　　**　　3。 第三套　　Directions： For this part， you are allowed 30 minutes to write a letter to a foreign friend who wants to teach English in China。 Please recommend a university to him。 You should write at least 120 words but no more than 180 words。　　破题思路　　第一段：描述越来越多的外国人选择来中国作教师的现象+推荐一所大学供对方参考。（套用王菲写作“三八大盖”之描述现象功能段）　　第二段：推荐此大学的理由。（套用“三大大盖”之分析原因功能段）　　第三段：展望来此大学教书的美好前景。（套用“三大大盖”之未来展望功能段。）　　老师王菲参考范文　　Dear friend，　　Since you want to teach English in China， I am writing this letter to recommend you an excellent school -- Wuhan University。 Undoubtedly， in recent years， teaching English in China is becoming increasingly prevalent at an amazing rate among our foreign friends。 A number of factors are accountable for my recommendation。　　One of the most common factors is that you can taste the mouth-watering local cuisines and drink famous tea of Wuhan。 Another contributing cause is Wuhan university is a college surrounded with lakes and mountains。 Here you will marvel at the exquisite and picturesque beauty of this university。 Perhaps the primary reason is that there is a strong academic environment and facilities， and you will also be attracted by the hospitality of students in this university。　　Teaching English in this university can directly promote the rapid progress of students’ English skills and indirectly spurs continuous development of the cultural interactions among China and western countries。　　Yours sincerely，　　**　　四、翻译　　1。 第一套　　原文：　　中国汉族人的全名由姓和名组成。中文姓名的特点是，姓总是在前，名跟在其后。千百年来，父姓一直世代相传。然而，如今，孩子跟母亲姓并不罕见。一般来说，名有一个或两个汉字，通常承载父母对孩子的愿望。从孩子的名字可以推断出父母希望孩子成为什么样的人，或者期望他们过什么样的生活。父母非常重视给孩子取名，因为名字往往会伴随孩子一生。　　-------------------------------------------------------------------------------　　精简结构：　　①…全名由。。。组成。　　②。。。姓名的特点是，。。。在前。。。在后。　　③千百年来，父姓。。。世代相传。　　④然而，。。。不罕见。　　⑤一般来说，名有。。。。个汉字，…承载。。。愿望。　　⑥从。。。推断。。。父母希望孩子成为。。。人，或者过。。。生活。　　⑦父母。。。重视。。。取名，因为名字。。。。伴随一生。　　-----------------------------------------------------------------------------　　参考译文：　　①The full name of the Han Chinese consists of a family name and a given name。　　②The characteristic of Chinese names is that the family name always comes first， followed by the given name。　　③For thousands of years， the paternal surname has been passed on from generation to generation。　　④Today， however， it‘s not uncommon for children to bear their mothers’ surname。　　⑤Generally， the given name consists of one or two Chinese characters， which usually carry the parents‘ wishes for their children。　　⑥It can be inferred from the children’s name that what kind of person the parents want their children to be， or what kind of life they expect them to live。　　⑦Chinese parents attach great importance to naming their children， as names usually go with them for a whole life。　　2。 第二套　　原文：　　①中国家庭十分重视孩子的教育。　　②许多父母认为应该努力工作，确保孩子受到良好教育。　　③他们不仅非常情愿为孩子的教育投资，而且花很多时间督促他们学习。　　④多数家长希望孩子能上名牌大学。　　⑤由于改革开放，越来越多的家长能送孩子到国外学习或参与国际交流项目，以拓宽其视野。　　⑥通过这些努力，他们期望孩子健康成长，为国家的发展和繁荣作出贡献。　　-------------------------------------------------------------------------------　　精简结构：　　①中国家庭。。。重视。。。教育　　②。。。父母认为应该。。。工作，确保。。。　　③他们不仅。。。而且。。。　　④。。。家长希望孩子能上。。。大学　　⑤由于。。。，。。。家长能。。。以。。。　　⑥通过。。。努力，他们期望孩子。。。，为。。。作出贡献　　-----------------------------------------------------------------------------　　参考译文：　　①Chinese families attach great importance to their children‘s education。　　②Many parents believe that they should work hard to ensure that their children can be well educated。　　③Not only are they willing to invest in their children‘s education， but also spend a lot of time supervising their study。　　④Most parents expect their children to attend a prestigious university。　　⑤Due to the reform and opening-up， more and more parents are able to send their children to study abroad or participate in international exchange programs to broaden their horizons。　　⑥Through these efforts， they expect their children to grow up healthy and contribute to the development and prosperity of our country。　　3。 第三套　　原文：　　①中国的家庭观念与其文化传统有关。　　②和睦的大家庭曾非常令人羡慕。　　③过去四代同堂并不少见。　　④由于这个传统，许多年轻人婚后继续与父母同住。　　⑤今天，这个传统正在改变。　　⑥随着住房条件的改善，越来越多年轻夫妇选择与父母分开住。　　⑦但他们之间的联系依然很密切。　　⑧许多老年人仍然帮着照看孙辈。　　⑨年轻夫妇也抽时间探望父母，特别是在春节和中秋节等重要节日。　　-------------------------------------------------------------------------------　　精简结构：　　①。。。观念与。。。有关　　②。。。大家庭。。。令人羡慕　　③。。。四代同堂并不少见　　④由于。。。传统，。。。年轻人。。。继续与。。。同住　　⑤今天，。。。传统。。。改变　　⑥随着。。。的改善，。。。夫妇选择。。。　　⑦但。。。联系。。。密切　　⑧。。。老年人。。。帮着。。。　　⑨。。。夫妇也。。。探望父母，特别是在。。。节日　　-----------------------------------------------------------------------------　　参考译文：　　①Chinese family values are related to its cultural traditions。　　②The harmonious extended family was once very admirable。　　③It was not uncommon in the past that four generations were living under one roof。　　④On account of this convention， many young people continue to live with their parents after marriage。　　⑤Today， this tradition is now going through changes。　　⑥With the improvement of housing conditions， a growing number of young couples choose to live apart from their parents，　　⑦though there still exist strong ties between them。　　⑧Many elder people help take care of their grandchildren as before。　　⑨Young couples also take time to visit their parents， especially during important festivals such as the Spring Festival and Mid-Autumn Festival。　　五、听力原文　　NEWS 1　　News report one　　（1） New York City police captured a cow on the loose in Prospect Park on Tuesday after the animal became an attraction for tourists while walking along the streets and enjoying the park facilities。 The confused creature and camera-holding humans stared at each other through a fence for several minutes。 At other times， the cow wandered around the 526 acre park and the artificial grass field normally used for humans sporting events。 Officers Kangri used soccer goals to fence the animal in。 However， the cow then moved through one of the nets， knocking down a police officer in the process。 Police loinbo eventually tracked the cow between two vehicles parked on either side of a baseball fields bench area。 An officer then shot an arrow to put it to sleep。 Then officers waited for the drug to take effect。 After it fell asleep， they loaded the cow into a horse trailer。 It was not clear where the cow came from or how it got lost obniol。 （2） Police turned it over to the animal control department after they caught it。　　Q1： What happened in New York‘s Prospect Park on Tuesday？　　Q2： What do we learn about the cow from the end of the news report？　　NEWS 2　　News report two　　Starting April 28 of this year， the National Museum of Natural History will begin renovating its fossil hall， the fossil hall， which displays some of the world‘s oldest and largest fossil specimens， receives more than 2 million visitors each year。 It’s one of the museum‘s most famous attractions。 （3） As a result， the museum plans to expand the hall as well as add to its ancient bird collection。 Bird lovers， both young and old， have already responded with excitement at the news。 loinbo The museum’s social media account has been flooded with messages of support。 In the meantime， the current collection will be closed。 However， visitors will be compensated during the closure。 Museum‘s special exhibition area will now be free of charge。　　This week， the resident exhibition is （4） a display of ancient wall paintings on loan from Australia。 They celebrate the cultural heritage of the country and will be available to view until Sunday。 Next week， the exhibition will be taken over by the Wildlife Photographer Oh Young Ping of the Year competition。 The winner of this year‘s competition will be awarded a preview of the new fossil hall， as well as a cash prise。　　Q3： What does the news report say about the Fossil Hall of the National Museum of Natural History？　　Q4： What is on display this week in the museum‘s resident exhibition hall？　　NEWS 3　　News report three　　Six birds have just been trained to （5） pick up rubbish at a French historical theme park。 According to the park‘s manager， Mr。 VBA， the goal is not just to clear up the park。 He says visitors are already good at keeping things clean。 Instead， he wants to show that nature itself can teach us to take care of the environment。 He says that rooks， （6） the chosen birds， are considered to be particularly intelligent。 In the right circumstances， they even like to communicate with humans and establish a relationship through play。 The birds will be encouraged to clean the park through the use of a small box that delivers a small amount of bird food each time the rook deposits a cigaret and/or a small piece of rubbish。 So far， visitors to the theme park have been excited to see the birds in action。 （7） However， some parents are concerned that it encourages their children to drop litter so they can watch the birds pick it up。 VBA is not concerned about this criticism。 He maintains most of the feedback he has received has been overwhelmingly positive。 He hopes now to train more birds。　　Q5： What has six birds been trained to do at a French historical theme park？　　Q6： Why were rooks chosen by the park manager？　　Q7： What is the concern of some parents？　　CONVERSATION 1　　Conversation one　　W： The name of the TV show。 We wish to produce is Science Nation。　　M： Please tell us more。 What will Science Nation be about？　　W： It‘ll be about science。 All sorts of science。 （8） Each episode will focus on a different area of science and tell us what we know， how we know it， and what we still don’t know。 The show will have one host only， and this will be loinbo Professor Susan Powell from Harvard University。 She‘s a great public speaker。　　M： So just to be clear， will the show‘s format be like that of a documentary？　　W： Kind of。 It‘ll be like a documentary in the sense that it’ll be nonfiction and fact based。 （9） However， our idea is for it to be also fun and entertaining， something which traditional documentaries aren‘t so much。 Please keep in mind this will be a new TV show like nothing ever done before。　　M： Okay， so it‘ll be both educational and entertaining （10） and your audience will be anyone interested in science， right？　　W： That‘s correct。　　M： Yes， right。 Thank you。 So I think we‘re more or less clear on what the show will be like。 Could you please tell us now what exactly you want from us？　　W： Yes， of course。 Basically， （11） what we need from you is financial support in order to go ahead with this idea。 We need two million dollars。 This would cover the cost of making all twelve shows in the first season for the first year。 If the show is a success， we can then look at making a second season for the following year。　　Q8： What do we learn about the TV show Science Nation？　　Q9： In what way will the TV show Science Nation differ from traditional documentaries？　　Q10： Who will be the intended audience of the TV show Science Nation？　　Q11： What does the woman want the man to do for the TV show？　　CONVERSATION 2　　Conversation two　　W： What‘s up with you？ You don’t look very happy。　　M： （12） I feel like I‘m a failure。 I can’t seem to do anything very well。　　W： I wouldn‘t say that you do very well in a lot of things。 That presentation you gave last week was excellent。　　M： Yes。 But I have this urge to strive for perfection。 I really want to push harder and progress further。　　W： Well， that‘s very admirable， but be careful， （13） over concern with being perfect can damage our confidence if we never achieve it。　　M： Yes， I know。 I feel awful whenever I make a mistake in whatever I‘m trying to do。　　W： Well， think about it。 You can‘t make progress without making mistakes and learning from them。 Thomas Edison， the famous inventor， once said， I’ve not failed。 I‘ve just found 10000 ways that won’t work。　　M： You may well be right。 I guess I should recognize my mistakes and learn the lesson they teach me and move forward。　　W： Also， remember， a successful ending is not the only thing worthy of a celebration。 You need to recognize each step of progress you take towards achieving your goals。 And no matter how tiny it is， it‘s still good news。　　M： （14） I always feel down when I see others accomplishing things and I feel miserable about my own achievements。 I‘m always trying to be as good as others， but I never seem to get there。　　W： Listen， if you always compare yourself with others， you‘ll never feel good enough。 You’re the only person you should be comparing yourself with。 （15） When you compare your current status with the starting point， you‘ll find you’ve made progress， right？ That‘s good enough。　　M： That‘s great advice。 Thank you。 I’m feeling better already。　　Q12： How does the man feel about himself？　　Q13： What does the woman think is the man‘s problem？　　Q14： How does the man feel when he sees others accomplishing things？　　Q15： What does the woman suggest the man do？　　PASSAGE　　Passage 1　　Single sex education can have enormous benefits for female students。 Numerous studies have shown that women who attend single sex schools tend to have stronger self-confidence， better study habits and more ambitious career goals than women who attend coeducational schools。 （16） Girls who graduate from single sex schools are three times more likely to become engineers than those who attend coeducational schools。 The reason is that all girls schools encourage women to enter fields traditionally dominated by men such as science， technology and engineering。 In coeducational schools， girls are often expected to succeed only in humanities or the arts。 Research has also shown that in coeducational settings，（17） teachers are more likely to praise and give in-depth responses to boys’ comments in class。 In contrast， they loinbo might only respond to a girl‘s comments with a nod。 They’re also more likely to encourage boys to work through problems on their own while they tend to step in and help girls who struggle with a problem。 In an all girls setting， girls are more likely to speak up frequently and make significant contributions to class than in a coeducational setting。 Girls studying in a loinbo single sex setting also earn higher scores on their college board and advanced placement exams than girls who study in coeducational settings。 All girls schools tend to be smaller than coeducational schools， （18） which means teachers will be able to tailor the materials to girls， students， personal learning styles and interest。　　Q16： What advantage does the speaker say girls from single sex schools have over those from coeducational schools？　　Q17： What do teachers tend to do in coeducational settings？　　Q18： What are teachers more likely to do in an all-girls school？　　Passage 2　　（19） Today， I found out that Seattle doesn‘t really get that much rain compared with most U.S。 cities。 In fact， Seattle ranks 44th among major U.S。 cities loinbo in average annual rainfall。 Cities that get more rainfall than Seattle include Houston， Memphis， Nashville and pretty much every major city on the eastern coast， such as New York， Boston and Miami。 So why does everyone think of Seattle as a rainy city？ The primary root of this misconception lies in that Seattle has a relatively large number of days per year with rainfall compared with New York and Boston， loinbo which get an average of about 16 percent more rain per year than Seattle， but also average between them about 36 fewer days a year of rainfall。 So， it rains a lot less than Seattle and the rain is spread out over more days than those cities。 （20） This is why few locals in Seattle carry an umbrella generally。 When it does rain， it tends to be a very light rain that is in troublesome。 It almost obniol never really rains， as most people think。 On top of that， it never really storms in Seattle either。 Seattle gets an average of a mere seven days a year with thunder。 （21） So， in short， if you like sunny， but not too hot summers， mild winters， but with lots of cloudy days， Seattle’s the place to be。 Anyway， if you visit Seattle， don‘t bring an umbrella。 People will look at you thinking you are funny。　　Q19： What did the speaker Kangri find out about Seattle？　　Q20： Why do local people in Seattle seldom carry an umbrella？　　Q21： Why does the speaker say Seattle is a good place to be？　　Passage 3　　After a tough workout or a day full of physical activity， it‘s common to find your muscles aching。 But where do these pains come from？ According to a German professor Kangri，（22） the soreness comes from straining your muscles in an uncommon way。 For example， jumping on a bicycle for a ride because you haven’t written in a long time。 Soreness occurs since your leg muscles aren‘t used to that movement。 When muscles perform an activity， they aren’t regularly exposed to。 The tiny fibers that are inside them are being torn apart as muscle soreness develops。 The body has to work to repair the muscle tears， but this doesn‘t happen immediately。 First， the body must realize the muscles are damaged when the body realizes the muscles are hurt。 （23） The response is to increase blood flow to the area and increase body heat。 Damage cells are then cleaned up and the body sends cells specially designed to break down the large muscle fiber fragments。 Healing can take place after this。 It takes about a day until these cells make it to your aching muscles。 That’s why there‘s most often a delay associated with muscle soreness。 （24） Repair of damage cells takes about two days and afterwards the soreness disappears。 Unfortunately， there’s little that can be done to relieve muscle soreness。 Pain relieving creams don‘t work， （25） but a hot shower or warm bath can provide some relief。　　Q22： Why does the German professors Kangri say about muscle soreness？　　Q23： What happens when muscles are damaged according to the passage？　　Q24： How long does it take for damaged cells to heal？　　Q25： What does the speaker suggested one do to relieve muscle soreness？　　责任编辑：杨笑